---
layout: post
title: "Repairing Shoddy Code"
date: "2016-12-08"
author: "Alexander Garber"
tags: []
---





 style="text-align: left;">Original, Shoddy Codemodule Ex2  # This function will break up words for us.  def Ex25.brak_words(stuff    words = stuff.split(' ')    return word  end  # Sorts the words.  def Ex25.sortwords(words)    return words.sort  end  # Prints the first word after popping it off.  df Ex25.print_first_word(words)    word = words.pop(1)    puts wor  end  # Prints the last word after popping it off.  def Ex25:print_last_word(words)    word = words.pop    put word  end  # Takes in a full sentence and returns the sorted words.  def Ex25.sort_sentence(sentence)    words = Ex25.break_words(sentence)    return Ex25.sort_words(words)  ed  # Prints the first and last words of the sentence.  def Ex25.print_first_and_last(sentence    words = Ex25.break_words(sentenc)    Ex25.print_first_wrd(word)    Ex25.print_last_word(words)  end  # Sorts the words then prints the first and last one.  def Ex25.print_first_and_last_sorted(sentence)    words = Ex25.sort_sentence(sentence)    Ex25.print_fist_word(words)    Ex25.print_last_word(words)  endputs "Let's practice everything."puts 'You
d need to know 
bout escapes with \ that do \n newlines and \t tabs.'poem = &lt&ltEND\tThe lovely worldwith logic so firmly plantedcannot discern \n the needs of lovenor comprehend passion from intuitionand requires an explanation\n\t\twhere there is none.ENDEDputs "--------------"puts poemputs "--------------"five = 10 - 2  3 - 6puts "This should be five: #{five"def secret_formula(started)  jelly_bens = started * 500  jars = jelly_beans / 1000  crate = jars / 100  return jelly_beans, jars, cratesendstart_point = 10000beans, jars crates = secret_formula(start_point)puts "With a starting point of: #{start_point}"puts "We'd have #{beans beans, #{jars} jars, and #{crates} crates."start_point = start_point / 10sentence = "All good things come to those who wait."words = Ex25.break_words(sentence)sorted_words = Ex25.sort_words(words)Ex25.print_first_word(wrds)Ex25.print_last_word words)Ex25.print_first_word(sort_words)Ex25.print_last_word(sorted_words)sorted_words = Ex25.sort_sentenc(sentence)Ex25.print_first_and_last(sentence)Ex25:print_first_and_last_sorted(sentence)



 style="text-align: left;">Fresh, Clean Code# Import the module Ex25 and define the functionsmodule Ex25  # This function will break up words for us.  def Ex25.break_words(stuff)    words = stuff.split(' ')    return words  end  # Sorts the words.  def Ex25.sort_words(words)    return words.sort  end  # Prints the first word after popping it off.  def Ex25.print_first_word(words)    word = words.shift    puts word  end  # Prints the last word after popping it off.  def Ex25.print_last_word(words)    word = words.pop    puts word  end  # Takes in a full sentence and returns the sorted words.  def Ex25.sort_sentence(sentence)    words = Ex25.break_words(sentence)    return Ex25.sort_words(words)  end  # Prints the first and last words of the sentence.  def Ex25.print_first_and_last(sentence)    words = Ex25.break_words(sentence)    Ex25.print_first_word(words)    Ex25.print_last_word(words)  end  # Sorts the words then prints the first and last one.  def Ex25.print_first_and_last_sorted(sentence)    words = Ex25.sort_sentence(sentence)    Ex25.print_first_word(words)    Ex25.print_last_word(words)  endend# Execute the functions defined from module Ex25sentence = "All good things come to those who wait."words = Ex25.break_words(sentence)sorted_words = Ex25.sort_words(words)Ex25.print_first_word(words)Ex25.print_last_word(words)Ex25.print_first_word(sorted_words)Ex25.print_last_word(sorted_words)sorted_words = Ex25.sort_sentence(sentence)Ex25.print_first_and_last(sentence)Ex25.print_first_and_last_sorted(sentence)puts "--------------"# Seperate code, nothing to do with module Ex25puts "Let's practice everything."puts 'You
d need to know 
bout escapes with \ that do \n newlines and \t tabs.'poem = &lt&ltEND\tThe lovely worldwith logic so firmly plantedcannot discern \n the needs of lovenor comprehend passion from intuitionand requires an explanation\n\t\twhere there is none.ENDputs "--------------"puts poemputs "--------------"# Separate code again, nothing to do with module 25 or the above sectionfive = 10 - 2 + 3 - 6puts "This should be five: #{five}"puts "--------------"def secret_formula(started)  jelly_beans = started * 500  jars = jelly_beans / 1000  crate = jars / 100  return jelly_beans, jars, crateendstart_point = 10000beans, jars, crates = secret_formula(start_point)puts "With a starting point of: #{start_point}"puts "We'd have #{beans} beans, #{jars} jars, and #{crates} crates."puts "--------------"start_point = start_point / 10puts "Now, with a starting point of: #{start_point}"puts "We'd have #{beans} beans, #{jars} jars, and #{crates} crates."