---
layout: post
title: "Coding Exercise Complete (58 Pomodoros)"
date: "2017-02-21"
author: "Alexander Garber"
tags: []
---

I have submitted my solution to the coding exercise for Envato, as part of my application for a Junior Developer role there.I spent 58 pomodoros on this project:7 strictly on planning and writing (roughly 3.5 hours)3 on studying RSpec (roughly 1.5 hours)47 on coding, reviewing, testing, refactoring, etc.I do not know if my solution is good enough for Envato, but it was the best I could do.There are many things that give me encouragement, regardless of the outcome of my job application.I can code.I have a lot to learn, I make many mistakes, my code is probably inefficient and clumsy, but I can take a problem and solve it through the code.  It is a sort of "hello world" moment for me.What I do works.As I have been teaching myself, it is always hard to gauge whether I'm getting things right, or whether I ought to sign up for a course instead.  I am more convinced than ever that I am on the right path, and can take pride in my work ethic, time management, knowledge, and skill.For example, I got stuck on writing Rspec tests, so I purchased an Rspec manual, studied it for precisely three pomodoros (black cells) and found I could write the tests I need. I have spent so far 3 x 20 minutes on study and 33 x 20 minutes on planning, writing, and coding for this exercise. The brevity of the study break excites me, because it is tangible, documented evidence that I have the intelligence, self awareness, and discipline to take a break from the main project, learn what I need, and then get back to work without wasting time. I will succeed.If I get the job at Envato that would be great, and if I don't I shall certainly be disappointed.  However, I am much closer to being the best pick for a junior spot somewhere out there, and I won't relent until I've achieved this goal.I am grateful to Envato for granting me an interview and the opportunity to show them what I can do.  Let's see what they make of it.