---
layout: post
title: "1,000 Hours in Code: What Do I Have To Show For It?"
date: "2018-06-07"
author: "Alexander Garber"
tags: []
---

It was not a happy day when I passed the official milestone of 1,000 hours of trying to become a developer.  I was still without a job, and long, painful experience had taught me that interviews in the offing counted for little.So I saved this photograph in a draft of this post, wiped my board clean, and stenciled out the twenty-first matrix.  I intended to write a blog post about how far I've come in my coding journey and all the things that I can work with now, of which I had scant knowledge a year-and-a-half ago — Ruby, Rails, coding puzzles, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, etc.  Instead, I turned off my computer and went to the gym.A career change is always hard, and these days no-one cares much for the travails of a married man who dreams of providing for his family.  Looking for work is laborious, thankless, frustrating, exhausting, and depressing.  But what's the alternative?  I had to keep on going.So the next day I turned on my System76 computer, for which I am most grateful, and spent the next few days studying hard on Udemy.  I put thoughts of whether I might get a job out of my mind and concentrated on studying and writing code — which, despite all the frustrations, I enjoy for its own sake — and to cut a long story short, fortune smiled on me two weeks later.Those of you who follow me on LinkedIn will have noticed a small, but rather important update in my profile:It's been two weeks in the job and I've almost completed a full cycle of pomodoros of productive work.  After going to roughly twenty interviews, someone finally agreed to give me a chance, and I think my colleagues will agree that I've grabbed it with both hands.So, it didn't take me exactly 1,000 hours, but rather 1,015½ hours, but what do I have to show for it?  A mission accomplished and a career change effected.Of course, in an important way, my work has only just begun: time is limited and there's lots to learn.But if there's one thing I'm good at, it's making the most of my time.Tick, tock, and all that.